A few things from someone who thought he had "been there", but who is now pretty much "actually there, and well beyond, so watch the fibblejizzle[*] out!":

Always, always, ALWAYS pick homicide over suicide. There are a million people out there who will tell you to jump off that bridge without hurting anyone else, but the real truth is, there are always people out there who deserve to die more than you, no matter who you are. Find them, study them, and hopefully be stopped somewhere along the way to doing them in by your own self-control, improved life circumstances, greater mission, or even the various medical and psychiatric professionals and/or law enforcement types who may interject themselves along the path. By the way, don't think I'm letting you off easy with a "death by cop" scenario, or a life sentence. You gotta plan this until there is no way they can pin it on you. Do the research, the answers are there, it can be done. Of course, you might also find, while in the depth of study, that it isn't an individual you wish to kill at all - but rather a group, club, organization, government, etc. More's the better, just takes a little more effort/time/research, and you may find that "killing" an idea, campaign, or company is actually not as frowned upon, and in some cases can win you all kinds of supporters who will grind alongside you towards the goal.
College sucks. No one tells you why you're there, or how it helps what comes next. Everyone around you seems to already know both backward and forward, which just makes you look even more the idiot/outcast who can't "hear the music". Well, let me assure you: there's no clock-scrobbling[*] music. None. Nor are there all that many people who know what the hell is going on. They just fake it a lot better than you, or your narcissistic leanings keep you from seeing how completely batshit panicked they all are, just like you. Anyway, seriously, nothing beats high school. Never has, never will. That part you just need to suck up. Oh yeah, and if you feel alone, you're walking through a sea of people who feel the same way. Because we are all alone. And unless you're also gay, it does not get better. Still, nice to finally have something in common with everyone, isn't it?
Every day, you're closer to dead. People will say this in much rosier ways, like "make every moment count" or some other bullflappity-hippy-granola-hoohaw[*]. Still, the important thing to remember is that, from where you stand, there's probably more wasted fuel in the tank, than leaked and evaporated on the asphalt[†] behind you. Just keep the damn engine running, and don't worry about it until you're at least 30.
You are, more than anything else, weak. That means that the pain you feel now, and your seeming inability to handle it, is a lot like a tubby fat kid at the gym for the first time. You can take it as a signal to give up and lard out, or you can see it as a chance to "feel the burn", turn into the pain, and grow some frackletackle[*] "life muscles". In all seriousness, if you're truly contemplating things like suicide or harming others, first write down everything you're afraid of - from talking to beautiful people, to public speaking, to skydiving, to seeing how much money you can make in webcam porn[ª], and just do all that stuff first.  Because, if you feel like you're in so much pain already, that you can't stand living, then doing all that "craziness" should be easy. My recommendation? The "Apocalypse Opener[º]".
It doesn't really matter if you're happy. No one else cares if you are happy. Not your boss. Not your friends. Not your parents. They all want, more than anything, for you to live up to (or, in some cases, surpass) their expectations for you. They may even support you in achieving, er, their goals for you, but don't mistake it for them wanting you to be happy. So, why bother with it yourself? Instead, spend your time and effort being good at something measurable. It could just be showing up on time every time. It could be drawing the 50 states perfectly from memory on a blank piece of paper. It could be cooking one dish, or knowing every Pokémon card's street value. Just pick something and go with it. Not to really make them seem pedestrian, but you know those Zen Buddhist Monks? Just dudes focusing on being bald and quiet. That's it. But they are good at it, which is all kinds of cocklesauce[*] over being happy.
Shnazzle[*] costs money. Remember when I said that your boss won't care if you're happy? Well, most bosses also don't care if you're really pathetically depressed, so long as you get the job done. So, find one of those bosses, and earn enough of a living while you slowly continue to implode and/or follow my other advice, that the crushing burden of abject poverty doesn't cloud your mind from your other more self-important issues, and lead you astray somehow into thinking you're one of the faceless millions of poor people. Be poor if you must, just not "poor people". Fudgeknuckle[*] that, you deserve your own private hell, not some pigeonholed cliché of fail. Put another way, when you don't show up to your 5 year college reunion, let them gossip about you specifically, rather than lumping you into their general derision of those "lazy wastrels of welfare"[∆].

You do all that, and you should have the following: 
Some skills in long-term planning, forecasting, and cost-benefit analysis that you can hopefully use for things besides killing people.
A realization that you're never more than a conversation away from someone who knows how bad it feels to feel bad.
Clarity that the insignificance of your existence is, itself, insignificant to your existence... And if you're lucky, gain the will to just exist.
The ability to be afraid, and push through it. Much more useful than never being afraid.
Some goals and skills that produce or distribute happiness by virtue of your presence, rather than chasing happiness directly as a possession you can own.
The ability to place the parts of life you find important on hold, while you deal with the parts that other people[¬] feel are important.

Hey, if I can grab a little of that self-destructive impulse you're bogarting to say that this answer sucks Balzac[*], but is the best and most heartfelt I could do in the situation (being nearly 3 years out of work, a college dropout, and a dad to a brilliant-but-apparently-doomed 3 year old girl). Take it seriously, take it as dark hearted comedic advice. Hell, take it as a cry for help from me. 

Whatever you do, though, keep going. You think your life is in ruins? The Parthenon is in ruins, and people still pay to go there. So, think about other stuff. Don't kill yourself. Keep going. And, almost assuredly, wind up better than me somehow, someday. And forget who helped get you there, no doubt. Bastard[•].

A final thought - almost everyone I've ever met finds the movie Rocky to be inspirational. Very few of them, however, really understand or remember that the Italian Stallion loses to Apollo Creed. The movie teaches me that you can't control whether you win, just how you deal with the loss and move on. The fuzzy recollection of my acquaintances teaches me something as well - that most people will overlook a bad outcome, for someone who "fought like a champ". 
